Protecting Your Assets with Replicated (#327)
replicatedhq/replicated-field-labs: instruqt/protecting-your-assets/04-helm-values-for-license-fields/assignment.md

      valueType: String
      signature:
        v1: UwI4/IL6JR4K5Tw7gapvfW6+zkirfMulbAxaQqkVIAZazip+pehegNRVhHEhbM9V9EibONGBbOazipb8aQeWO2hYoN0mcQOelUxVmK7U2GFP862tyorwAPwxMg+ZbAunUsoKP4/GT+Up5bhC8UN+NgyfZFzmCo3G6TK+2tbtI/tHXN0IwFacY3TyvryAfB+6qRGpsb0efb/Wl4DNmzuo/z9qE/1HbdG/TGUdq3SEmaH4iGBSeUZMHrHmW7/fHM8DDAABi7NW8v7HGEKI467yufKPcohzim8roLl2mdLsnLq2o3J5ovsAImgXUK3ac7ymHBLdT9WRg5cuBtAWNI5oaQ==
  licenseID: 2fWGT7wAk3oTJXUrqTjFPMb9yLm
  licenseType: prod
```

There are a few useful things in there:

* Which customer this license is for, including name, a unique license ID, and
  their email.
* The customer's credentials for the Replicated registry and proxy (we used
  this earlier).
* The type of license: `prod` (representing a paid license), `dev`, `trial`, or
  `community`.
* A set of fields representing license entitlements. We'll talk about those in
  the next section.

You can use this information to customize the user experience, guard components
(e.g. don't allow persistence with trials), and tailor the install to the
license entitlements.

License Fields
==============

The license has several fields that represent specific entitlements of this

> license. In Helm, they're available as an array

Reviewer: ```suggestion
license. In Helm, they're available as a dictionary
```

Looks like a Dict to me

Author: You're right. I was thinking they were an array of dicts when I wrote it.

> `global.replicated.licenseFields`. Each is fields is represented as a YAML

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`global.replicated.licenseFields`. Each licenseField is represented as a YAML
```

dictionary. You can add your own fields to represent your unique entitlements.
We'll do that in the next part of the lab.

> Every application will have at least one field in this array for the license

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every application will have at least one field in this dictionary for the license
```

```

Other license fields will be displayed in the same format. The name,
title, description, and type are set when you set up the field. Entitlements
can be integers, strings, text (multi-line strings), or boolean. All fields are
signed to prevent tampering. Unfortunately the built-in functions in Helm do
not include the capabilities we need to verify the signature. It's also trivial
to override the value. Even if we had the functions, it's also easy to override
the signature.

In spite of those limitations, there's still value to using the global values
in your Helm templates. You can use them to determine which features to
install, how to configure a service, or even whether to install at all. Just be
sure to also use the Replicated SDK to validate any critical license conditions
in your application code.

Limiting a Trial License
========================

One of the values we have available is the type of license that we're using for
the install. Let's use that value to limit the functionality of a Slackernews
trial.

Using the editor in the "Slackernews Chart" tab, open the file

> `slackernews/templates/slackernews-deployment`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`slackernews/templates/slackernews-deployment.yaml`.
```

changes. First we'll have to release them, then we'll try an install and see
what happens.

### Releasing the Updates Chart

First bump the version of the Helm chart. You can do it in the editor by
updating `Chart.yaml`, or use the following command.

```
yq -i '.version = "0.5.1"' slackernews/Chart.yaml
```

Package up the new version and release it to the three default release
channels.

```
helm package -u slackernews -d release
replicated release create --promote Unstable --chart release/slackernews-0.5.1.tgz --version 0.5.1  \
  --release-notes "Prevents persistence with trial licenses"
replicated release promote 6 Beta --version 0.5.1 \
  --release-notes "Prevents persistence with trial licenses"
replicated release promote 6 Stable --version 0.5.1 \
  --release-notes "Prevents persistence with trial licenses"
```

### Installing

Let's install the latest release as Nitflex, then check to see whether
persistence with Postgres was enabled. Since it's a good practice, let's make
sure we run our preflight checks before installing.

```
helm template oci://registry.replicated.com/[[ Instruqt-Var key="REPLICATED_APP" hostname="shell" ]]/slackernews \
  | kubectl preflight -
```

> Your preflight checks should pass, so let's install. Postgres is enabled by the

Reviewer 2: ![image](https://github.com/replicatedhq/replicated-field-labs/assets/5035609/770407aa-3c29-4819-a690-21c688afd238)

preflights aren't happy (not that it's a problem...)

Author: I thought I bumped up the machine size, I'll have to do that.

Author: Did it in a previous lab but not this one. Bumped it up now.
